hi I'm Steve Mathis mechanic to the
Stars this week on trans world how to
presented by bike bandit we're gonna
show you how to wash your bike you may
be thinking Mathis
you're an idiot I know how to wash your
bike well no you don't
as a former factory mechanic there's a
certain way that we wash bikes in the
pits to try to minimize the water damage
and this week on with the help of bike
bandit we're gonna show you how to do it
too let's get clean all right so we've
got Brendan Lutz his rmz 450 here and
he's thankful he's gotten a pretty dirty
for us so before you start washing what
I recommend doing is taking the seat off
I'm not sure how many people do this but
if you take your seat off it'll help
save your foam down the line water can
really damage your foam make it soft
make it easy and break it down so you'll
notice in the pits at your local
national there's a no bikes being washed
with the seats on and it's for this
reason plus two the foam accumulates the
water and makes it heavy so I always
take my seat off your filters exposed
just get a rag and stuff it in there
prevent your filter from being wet you
can certainly remove your filter by an
air filter cover if you'd like but I
just put a rag in there especially if
your filter doesn't need cleaning get an
exhaust plug for your exhaust if you get
water down into your muffler it'll cause
you're packing to deteriorate it'll
cause you're packing to go away and make
your make it break down sooner which
means you got to work on it more so get
the butt plug as everybody calls it
stick it in the end of the exhaust the
seats off a bike standing upright you're
not going to be able to get most of the
dirt off most of the dirt is underneath
the bike so again what you'll see the
factory mechanics do
they will take the stand and lean the
bike over like so
so the bikes leaning over as I was
saying lots of dirt on the underside of
the bike so leaned over here it's easy
to get to the linkage it's easy to get
to the bottom of the frame it's easy to
get underneath the fenders and you're
ready to get the crucial parts of the
bike clean so let's get started
all right so the bike is wet it's ready
to be applied with soap you can use any
sort of household cleaner out there
there's plenty of companies that make
bike wash as well and just basically
spray it rims plastic and with you
giving it a pre-soak the soap will have
more effect onto the bike one thing I
should also stress with a pressure
washer situation don't hold it against
your linkage or inside your motor at
your counter shaft or anything else
bikes are not waterproof you can get
water in there if you just keep holding
it spray there you know so be careful on
the water with when you use pressure
washers
because unlike factory mechanics you're
not tearing it down all the time all
right we got some soap on there let's
get the dirt off
all right the underside of the bike is
clear is clean now we're going to worry
about the plastics and the topside so
take it off the stand and put it up put
it back on the stand and now you can get
the other side that was underneath as
well as the plastic on this side
alright bikes ready to go got some more
soap spray your handlebar area all those
parts that you missed before you can use
a simple kitchen brush if you have some
stubborn spots that just won't go also a
few companies sell one of these mud
scrapers you can go underneath your
fender like so if the mud is really bad
this bike Booth's doesn't go very fast
later than attract a lot of mud so not
needed in this bike also as well while
your brush helps and what the wire brush
does is on your chain you just clean
some of the crud off so what I like to
do is just jam it in there spin your
wheel forward and it'll get that junk
off of your chain and you're going to
lube it afterwards so NPPL on the SLS
bath and concentrate on the welds like I
said
state motor even now he's wondering how
those mechanics get everything looking
so good
they take each piece off and clean it
like this but for this demo I'm gonna
leave it on the bike
remember after you get it all back
together make sure you pull your rag out
of the air box and always start your
bike water has a funny way of
accumulating in different spots just
start it up real quick it could be 30
seconds get the bike up to temperature
start it off turn it off and make sure
you're all good for that all right get a
towel dry off your machine you can see
how much better it looks there
don't spray too much on the filter when
you have the seat off now what I like to
do maxima SC one spray it's a real
bitchin sort of polish for your bike
makes it look brand new again
you spray that on put some NPPL on your
chain make sure it's good bolt your seat
back on take your plug out and go riding
that's been this week's Transworld
how-to presented by bike bandit stick
around come back next week we'll have
some more tips